Alright so before we get started I feel like its important that you know at least the basic idea of how the process of getting and loading a web page in your browser works. For some of you this may be very simple, and you may know all this and for some of you this may be very confusing and daunting. If it is confusing, just know that youll understand this process more as time goes on and you dont need to know it  to start building websites. A good metaphor for this is that you dont need to know how a an engine works to learn how to drive a car. The stuff Im gonna talk about here all happens under the hood. So if your a beginner and just stepping into this world, dont worry if you dont undertsand this stuff, I just think its important to mention.
====
So you use the internet everyday but most people dont know how it works, they just know they goto facebook.com and it loads their profile. Im gonna try and keep this explanation as simple as as possible so the internet is  basically a global network of computers and devices. These computers have an ipaddress which uniquley identifies it. Just like an actual address for your home. Your ipaddress is assigned to you by your internet service provider. Theyre usually in the form of four numbers with dots in between. This is a version 4 ip adrss. Theres also longer form addresses which are version 6. These were made for when we run out of version 4 addresses. If you goto google and search whats my ip, youll find sites that actually trace your ip and show it to you. Now even if you have multiple devices on the internet, they each have a private netwrk ip address thats internal to your home network but your router only has one public ip address visible to the internet...

Now the way computers talk to eachother is over something called the tcp/ip protocol. A protocol is basically just a way for computers to commicate. Alsmot like the language they speack to eachother... Dont worry too much about this. If your getting into computer networking, its important to understand the different network layers and how data packaets are sent and so on but its not important to know exactly how this works to become a web developer. Like I said, this is under the hood stuff.

Now HTTP is a little more important for you to understand but if this sounds like gibberish, dont worry about that right now. This stands for hyper text transfer protocol.. This is an application layer protocol that runs over TCP and its responsible for handling web traffic between a browser like google chrome or firefox and a web server that stores a website and ill talk more about that in the next slide. HTTP is one of many types of application layer protcols. you also have for instance smtp which deals with email, you have ftp and ssh which deal with transfering files. HTTP howerver is gonna be the one you deal with the most in web development.
===
So websites and webpages are files stored on computers that run a piece of software called a web server. An example of a webs erver would be Apache or Nginx. Technically you could run a web server from your home but most internet service providers prohibit it so what you do is you use a hosting company which rents out eiether a dedicated server or a some space on a shared server. Shared hosting is much cheaper, and well talk more about this later..

In addition to hosting you need a domain name, such as a .com, .net. org, etc. Now remember all computers including web servers have an ipaddress, but it would really suck if we wanted to goto facebook and had to remember 75.22.128.131 so what happens is when you type in http://www.facebook.com, theres something a dns or domain name service that maps tht domain name to the correct ip address of facebook.com. This makes our lives much easier. otherwise youd probably have a notebook with a bunch of numbers for when you wanna visit a website. Later on Im gonna show you how to register a domain and also how to upload your site to a web host.

--

Alright so lets look at a quick diagram that visually explains what I just summarized. So you the user types in google.com into the web browser. The DNS server looks at the domain and maps the ipaddress needed. Then it reaches out to the server that google resides on using an http request. It then gets a response which includes things like html files, css files for styling, javascript files which are used for more dynaic stuff like forms, the response will also include any images that are displayed on that page and anything else thats needed. Then google.com is loaded in your browser. These http requests are made when you load a webpage as well as submit a form. Theres different types of requets and status codes but thats all stuff your learn later on when you get into scripting and programming. You dont need to know that stuff to create a static website and upload it to a hosting account.

Alright so that is a very brief summary of how this all works under the hood. In the next video Im gonna talk alittle about the roles of HTML and CSS, which is almost always where your gonna start in web development.


