Alright so web development involves many different technologies including html, css, programming languages, frameworks, tools and much more but HTML and css are what I call the building blkocks. This is where you start whether you wanna build simple 5 page websites or social networks and online stores. So I wanna talk about the roles of html and css in web development.
-
So HTML is actually short for hypertext markup language and thats exactly what it is is a markup language. Many people that are brand new to web development or just arent in that world yet think HTML is programming but its not actually a programming language. A programming language is where you write code that can do things based on logic. You can check to see if something is true or false and then do some type of action based on that condition. You can do math and create reusable functions and the list goes on, you dont do any of that with HTML. HTML is purley visual and used to create and construct documents that are viewable insidde of a web browser window. It doesnt have any behavior associated with it oither than displaying content meaning text, links, images, things like that. 
Now this isnt to minimize html, in fact there is no Internet as far as the browser goes without HTML. Its extremley important and relevant and always will be..Every single site that you visit displays its markup using HTML. Sometimes its hand written and sometimes its generated by another programming language, but when you view the compiled source of a website, youll always see html markup.

 HTML itself is usd to display content but it has little to no stying. HTML itself is extremley ugly, this is where CSS comes in.. CSS stands for cascading style sheets and its a styling or stylesheet language. Like HTML its not an actual programming language. Its purley visual only instead of being used to display content, its used to style content and layout. Now CSS is getting more powerful itself, you can now have variables in core css, you can do some calculation and so on. It can also be extended with something called a css pre-compiler such as sass and less, which can make css more powerful but Were not gonna get into that until much later. So these 2 go hand in hand, HTML handles content display and css handles colors, alignment, fonts and everything else to do with styling. 

Now web developement includes a huge range of technologies to the point where it's many times overwhelming but these two are the building blocks because no matter how complicated the web application, it uses html and css. A web app like facebook or amazon that has functionality like user accounts, creating posts, credit card procesing, etc, you cant do that with just html and css, you need some kind of backend programming language and usually a database for storage of those user accounts and posts. Thats stuff youll learn in another course but Wihtout html and css, facebook and amazon cease to exist becayse html and css are responsible for diplaying the content to you in a browser whether its on a computer or a mobile device. So these two technologies are always the first ones you learn before moving to more advancxed web programming. You can think of html and css as the human body and programming with other languages as the brain. They both need eachother. Javascript is sort of in its own leauge because it is a programming language that can run in the browser and can do things like form validation and click events and it can also be used on the actual web server like any other language with something called Node.js which is something you may wanna look into later on. Javascript would definily be my suggestion on what to move on to aftter this course.


So what can we do with just html and css? After this course what can you build? You can build any kind of static website. So something like a portfolio site to display your work, any small business site. If a bakery or a  construction company wants to hire you to build them a site to display their services and their work and so on, you can do that with just html and css. Informational sites, brochures, anything that doesnt have moving parts like user accounts, shopping carts. things like that. 
Now you can build the visual part of a shopping cart or a social network or juts aabout anything, youll just need to either learn a programming language or have someone else do the inner workings of the site. So its up to you, you can take this course to learn how to build great static websites for small business or take it to start your journey to build full stack dynamic web applications.

Alright, so in the next video were gonna started with setting up our computer environment with some tools to start writing html and css.