meta tags are snippets that describe a pages content. They dont appear anywheere on the page they just describe cerrtain attributes of the page. Im not gonna go over every possible meta tag there is but well go over the ones we see here and some of the other important ones. Notice these all have the word meta in the tag, the difference is the attributes. They do very differnt things depending on the meta attributes. Most meta tags have a name to define what it is and a content to define the value.

charset - So the charset specifies the character encoding of a website. UTF-8 is the character encoding for unicode. The '8' means it uses 8-bit blocks to represent a character. Theres also utf-16.. Its not extremley important to understand how this works in fact even if we leave this out,. UTF-8 will be the default but just know is the preferred encoding for web pages as well as email. The Unicode Standard covers (almost) all the characters, punctuations, and symbols in the world.

viewport - The viewport meta tag has to do with the users visable area of a web page. It controls the dimensions and the scaling of the are the websites displayed in in the browsaser.  This is important for responsive design which refers to your website looking good and functioning in a mobile browser on a smartphone or a tablet. You generally wanna set this to have a content value of what you see here. The width should be the width of the device. This way if your viewing on a mobile devcice, its not zoomed in where part of the website is cut out horizontally. The initial-scale=1.0 sets the initial zoom level when the page is first loaded by the browser. How its set here is pretty much how you wanna leave it. Without this you may run into some issues on mobile devices.

This http-equiv value is not something I really care about. It has to do with supporting very old browsers like Internet explorer 8 and 9. If you need to suppoort those browwsers that noone really uses anymore, then you may want this tag. I just leave it becasue emmet puts it there. You can configure emmet to remove it as well as any meta tags but it doesnt hurt to have it there. Edge is microdofts newer browser thats on all windows machines and were basically saying use those standars for ie. 

Alright so some other popular meta tags have to do with search engines. When google or bing crawls your site to index it in the search engine, it looks at a few things. Of course your webpage content, it looks at your title tag and uses that as the results title, and then it also looks for a meta description. If you dont have a meta description, it will just use webpage content. So if your concerned about how your site looks lin search engines, you wanna have a nice description. So you would add a meta tag like this...

You can also add  keywords to beetter describe the content of your site. These dont really hold weight for search engine optimization anymore but it does help describe your site for other reasons. Theyre not needed but it wont hurt to add them.. So youd do something like...

Now there may be cases where you dont want the search engines to index your website. You can prevent them from crawling and indexing your site by using the robots meta tag. So if we add...
NOINDEDX meansDo  not show this page in search results and nofollow means Do not follow the links on this page. You can even specify googlebot instead or robots if you only wanted to not be indexed in google but allow other search engines. I dont think thats used very often bnut it is possible.